HiDoc API was created from a preset model provided by Code Institute: https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/ci-full-template

HIdoc-API is a Django REST Framework ("DRF") Application Programming Interface ("API").

The setup followed a step by step guide created by Code Institute. Source: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LCLxWhmW_4VTE4GXsnHgmPUwSPKNT4KyMxSH8agbVqU/edit#heading=h.mpopj7v69qqn


Django and Rest:
---
In terminal:
`pip3 install 'django<4'`
Please ignore the notice message from the terminal that ask you to update.
- Why?
django<4 install a long term supported version of Django that is recomended over the newer version.

In terminal:
`pip3 install djangorestframework`
- Add to installed apps list


Images:
---
Images are hosted by Cloudinary.
Images are used for Artists profile picture, documentation, and project thumbnail.

Cloudinary will add a hash to prevent duplicat errors if any user uploads an image with generic name such s image.PNG
In terminal:
`pip3 install django-cloudinary-storage`

Images are processed with Pillow.
In terminal:
`pip3 install Pillow`
- Why?
Cloudinary alone serve to store images and videos, it does not provide serivce to update and proccess them.

The settings are: CLOUDINARY_STORAGE, MEDIA_URL, and DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE


views.py:
---
views.py import APIView and Response, which makes API visible.
views.py import Http404, to serve the purpose of perceiving anything non-existing.
views.py import status, which enable the API to understand the result of a given form.
The edit form is automatically generated by using `serializer_class = ArtAccountSerializer`.


urls.py:
---
urls.py import path,
For optimal maintainability, each component are sliced into many smaller pieces, the main urls.py inside art_acc folder connect the pieces. The main urls.py import `include` which allow it to connect these smaller pieces. This is useful in case a component need to exist but shouldn't be visible by the visitor.


serializers.py
---
Serializers convert data between JSON and Python


permissions.py
---
Stored inside drf_api, this file prevent non-owners from editing other's informaiton.
permissions.py import `permissions`, to make sure only the owner can make edits to their properties.


env.py:
---
The environment file (env.py) is only available to the developmer(s). The env.py file access sensitive enviroments, such as Cloudinary.
The contents are:
`
import os
os.environ['CLOUDINARY_URL'] = '(cloudinary API adress)'
`

These lines must exist in settings.py:
`
import os
is os.path.exists('env.py'):
    import env
`
- Why?
During development: settings.py need to link up env.py so that it can be read and used.


Project:
---
In terminal:
`django-admin startproject drf_api .`


Apps:
---
- To create an app, run in terminal:
`python3 manage.py startapp (app_name)`
- HiDoc API created these apps:
"art_acc" (artists account)


Artits account app:
---
- The "art_acc" model is responsible for authentication with ownership, or authority to CRUD.
- The model for artist account follow a similar structure to Code Institute's Moments tutorial model for profiles.
- Models use import of `User`, which enable the API to percieve individuals, i.e differenciate user-A from user-B.
- Models use import of `Signals`, which is a part of making it possible to register new users from the front-end.


Project app:
---
- The "project" model hold information about aany user's project(s).
- The model for project follow a similar structure to Code Institute's Moments tutorial model for post.
- The agile approach only include a feature poster and description about the project. This is because the training reference don't include the more advancded features from the HiDoc user stories, and there's no certanity that they could be experimented before the deadline.


Run server:
---
To test the app, run this in the terminal:
`python3 manage.py runserver`
During development, it's neccessary to add an adress to allowed hosts inside settings


Django signals:
---
- Signals can notify actions.
- In any models.py, import:
`from django.db.models.signals import (signal_name)`
- In the admin.py, import:
`form .models import (ModelName)`
- The structure of the block will vary.
- Migrate


Dependencies
---
- To skip the long list of installed dependencies, each dependency are frozed.
- In terminal:
`pip3 freeze > requirements.txt`
- To retrieve the requirements, in terminal: